# Head Judge

The Head Judge assumes a more administrative role when it comes to judging. At non-premier events, the Head Judge is typically assumed to be the highest-level just or most senior judge on staff unless otherwise specified by the tournament organizer. At premier events, the head judge is typically selected through an application and/or interview process from a prospective pool of judges. Head Judges have the responsibility to help select their judge staff, assign roles to judges, delegate tasks, and host performance reviews for judges who attend events, if directed to do so by the tournament organizer. For premier events, performance reviews are required as a baseline requirement where the Head Judge will evaluate the competencies of their judge staff on categories such as those listed under [Judging: The Basics](../judging-the-basics/).

Apart from administrative duties, the Head Judge is the final decision-maker regarding rulings, judge calls, corrective procedures, and penalties applied within a tournament. Decisions from a Head Judge are final. However, it is typically good practice to review any tricky situations or calls that might have had an alternate result or interpretation. Much of the feedback that goes into improving policy documents and the verbiage of the comprehensive rules originates from Head Judges.

For tournament proceedings, the Head Judge will also typically announce the beginning of the next round, but may also delegate this task. The Head Judge should also either announce to delegate another judge to give players reminders for how much time is left in the round. Suggested announcements are at the 30, 10, and 5 minute clock times, in addition to announcing when the round is over, when overtime begins, and when overtime ends for players to quickly submit their match slips.

Head Judges must have an excellent understanding of the tournament details, from venue organization to the staff and roles involved, especially from outside of the judge team itself. Large events, in particular, require extensive collaboration between the judging team and others, such as any other tournament officials, volunteers, or venue staff.

While the Head Judge carries the position with the greatest weight behind any decisions or rulings, it is important to understand that the position does not come without its problems. Head Judges are typically prominent members of the judging community who have repeatedly demonstrated commitment, excellence, and leadership qualities befitting the position and are trusted by the community. We understand that Head Judges will form strong bonds with players, particularly in the competitive scenes, and build friendships and other relationships in this context. It is unavoidable, in this context, for Head Judges not to be involved in rulings or decisions for which they may hold some degree of inherent bias. Being selected as a Head Judge implies that the individual is trusted to put the integrity of the tournament above personal interests and can act faithfully to uphold justice in the competitive setting. However, if a Head Judge feels that they are incapable of rendering a decision and cannot assume the necessary position of impartiality, they can defer judgment to an [Assistant Head Judge](assistant-head-judge.md).
